So, the next thing we need to focus on
are the so-called double border corners.
Ooh, cool, right?
So, this is this little detail right here.
You see how just the corners
have a border on them?
This little corner sort of
effect that's going on.
We have that both on the magenta line box
and we have it on the album box down here.
This is the two spots where we
are using that double border corner.
What do people think about that?
How do we make that happen?
Anybody has any ideas at all?
>> So you would take your container
>> Yeah.
>> And apply the borders to before and
after pseudo elements.
And because there are four here,
you just have to grab one of the child,
components and do the same thing.
>> There you go.
If you understood what he said,
he's actually got the right answer here.
So I will show you here,
what we've got going on.
The first thing I did to start this was I
googled it, because that's what you do.
You go Google for
double border corners CSS and
I wound up with this post here on Stack
Overflow, always a great place to look.
And it turns out they had a bunch
of different solutions for this.
I could not believe how many solutions
they came up with that produce double
border corners.
And you can produce all kinds of wacky,
different kinds of double border corners.
So there you can make far more interesting
ones than the ones that our designer has
called for.
Here's a way you can do it with SVGs,
so on and so forth.
But the methodology that I like the best
is the one that Jason described for this.
Feel free to dig into Stack Overflow and
check out all these other
ways of doing this.
Maybe it'll inspire you for
your next design.
But here I have aJSFiddle
that's responsible for
sort of inspiring this approach.
JSFiddle is very much like CodePen.
It's more oriented towards
the JavaScript developer community.
So you can see kind of
here what's going on.
Here we have a div with an ID of content.
Inside of that,
we have a paragraph, super simple.
Then what we're going to do is
we work with content before.
So the before and
after associated with that div of content
makes sense that forms two boxes and
then the paragraph
inside of that,
it also has a before and after, right?
So that gives us four little boxes
that we can work with, right?
Gives us four sides, then what we're
going to do is use positioning
to move those boxes to
the corners of the main box and
turn on the borders just for
those little bits of code.
That's sort of broadly
the direction we're going in.
So you're ready, we're gonna write
some code for this Make sense?
Everybody okay?
>> Sorry, can you remind me what
the before and after actually
>> What before and after actually do?
Okay, so remember every HTML
element has a box around it, right?
>> Yeah.
>> We know that cuz we have a border and
we have margin and we have padding,
all that kind of thing.
Every HTML element has that.
And when we work with just HTML and
CSS, usually that's all we access.
Is that so-called node, that's
the program, return that node in the HTML.
But in fact there is space before that and
after that node.
And we can access those with
the sudo element before and after.
And that gives us the ability to
put things before something or
things after it.
Make sense?
We've actually used a little bit of before
and after elsewhere here in our code so
far, but now we're really digging
into how before and after work, okay?
So let us take a look then at our CodePen.
We'll start with our beginning CodePen for
this section
Okay, so fold all this up and
get it ready.
Nice reviews.
The lbum is the layer
that we're working with.
We don't need the footer, we don't need
the media da da, da, da, da, da da, okay.
So we don't need either side.
Okay, so our two boxes have a class
of album associated with them.
That is what we're gonna use,
we're gonna use that class of album and
we're going to use their first child.
So it actually happens to be the same for
both of them,
which is this h2 that shows up here,
right?
So there's an h2 that shows
up at the start of one box.
There's an h2 that start shows up
at the start of the other box.
Make sense?
Okay, so
now we can start writing our code here.
So the first thing that I'm going
to do Is on my album style,
I am going to add to
this position relative.
Guess why I'm adding that.
Do you remember earlier where we talked
about relative and absolute positioning?
We said it will go all the way on up
looking for the the next element inside
of all that nested HTML that
doesn't have a position of static,
has know sticky, fixed, absolute,
relative, right, it's looking for it.
Relative is the one that
we usually use for this,
because it doesn't do anything by itself.
As you can see, nothing has changed.
Whereas sticky or
fixed would definitely change something.
And absolute often changes things as well,
right?
Makes sense, okay?
So we want everything to be
relative to that album item,
which is of course the cyan
border that you see here.
You can read that right there in the code.
Makes sense?
Okay, so then we are going to write
the following whacked out code.
So we're gonna say .album.before, okay?
So that's our selector.
Notice that it has a double colon.
Sometimes you'll see this
written with one colon, and
that just has to do with,
one colon was part of CSS2.
Sudo-elements and
sudo-classes both had the same colon.
And everybody got confused as to which was
a sudo-class and which was a sudo-element.
So in CSS3, they turned
sudo-elements into double colons.
So you'll see it written both ways,
and I like to do the double colon cuz
it reminds you that it's a sudo-element,
all right?
So, album:::before,
.album::.album.
And then, we're going to say,
the immediate colon first-child::before.
Whoa!, having fun yet?
What does that mean?
>> Before the first-child of the album.
>> Yes, so before whatever that
first-child is a direct descendant
of album, so we don't know what
that first child is gonna be.
In our case, we've actually got h2 both
times, we could just say h2 before.
But this is a more generic way of writing
it, so now you can take the style and
apply it to any other
web page that you build.
Make sense?
Okay, and then we're gonna write that one
more time, and we're gonna say after.
So now we have four boxes.
After, there we go.
And how do I know we have four boxes?
Well, I'll show you, if I say the width
is 40 pixels, the height is 40 pixels.
And I put in a border,
two pixels solid var, Cyan.
We might start to see them.
>> You need a declare block.
>> Declare a block,
is that what I've left off?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay, Splay block.
>> And your content, I'm sorry.
>> And my content.
Because it requires content for
it to show up here on the page.
>> I don't know if the foreign after
are inline or blocked by default.
>> That actually does isn't needed.
Okay, I'll leave it for
now we'll see what happens.
So you see what's happening here, we have
this block here, this block here, okay?
Those are coming from album,
that's before and
after associated with album.
We've now turned them into little blocks
and given them four borders, okay?
And inside of this,
we have this is actually a block,
it's not splitting as such,
but trust me, it's a block.
And this one over here is another
block that's associated with the h2,
which is the first-child of the album.
Makes sense, okay?
>> So HTML is kind of
throwing in three blocks for
the price of one with every element.
Exactly, just if you need them,
you can style them.
You can change content with them
,sometimes people change content
with them.
You can include, we used them earlier to
include the Hamburger button on the page,
that kind of stuff.
>> As long as the HTML element can
contain something inside of it, so
it doesn't work for inputs.
Well, unfortunately some inputs do work
like range doesn't work for image.
So it's kind of a hit or miss.
>> Yeah, exactly.
Okay, so now what I'm gonna do,
I'm going to set my position to absolute,
because we definitely don't
want these boxes there,
we're going to have to move
them around in space, okay?
And they're gonna look weird here for
a while,
just sort of ignore what they're doing,
we have a lot of stuff to type in.
So we've got our position of absolute,
we've got our width and
height which controls
the size of the corners.
Now, I put in the border 2 pixel
solid var(--cyan) here, so
that you could see that
those boxes existed.
I'm now gonna take that out, and
I'm going to change this to
the border color is var(cyan).
Remember, border itself is shorthand,
it contains three properties.
It contains a width, it contains a color,
right, and it contains a style.
So I'm sort of breaking
these out individually now.
So I'm saying that I want cyan borders and
I want the border style to be solid.
Now why would I do this?
I'm leaving out the width, right?
Why would I do this?
>> You want different widths depending
on what side of the box it is.
>> I may want different widths depending
And ultimately with these boxes,
what am I gonna do?
>> I only want part of the box.
>> I only want part of the box,
I'm only gonna turn on two
of the four borders, right?
And I'm gonna control that
through my border width property.
Okay, so always I want it to be cyan and
I want it to be solid.
But I can say by using my border width
property I can control exactly where it's
gonna show up, make sense?
Awesome, okay?
And let's see, then we want a little
bit of margin ultimately again it's not
really gonna show much here right now.
But we want a little bit of margin between
these inner boxes and the album, right?
So we have a little bit of space to
see the double corner, makes sense?
So we're gonna say margin 0.25 rim,
Okay, So
now, for each of the individual boxes,
we can get specific about it.
So we'll start with .album::before.
And what we're gonna say here about
before is now we use those top left right
bottom properties to position it in space.
So we're gonna tell this
one to go to top 0,
right: 0,
See I went on over there to that corner.
And now we can say we want
our border width to be 1px,
1px, 0 0, or 2 pixels, right?
Sort of depends on what
effect you're looking for.
Top right, bottom left.
So there's top and right, makes sense?
How cool is that?
>> That's cool.
>> That is a pretty awesome little trick.
Smoking hot, right?
And it's happening down here
on the other box as well,
right, cuz we're putting
this on our album class.
So now anything with that album class will
wind up with these double border corners.
Okay, so we're gonna continue on here,
copy that style, and
we'll put it down here.
And we're gonna change
this to album::after and
it will have a bottom of 0 and
it will have a right of 0.
And this time it the border wits
will be 0 2 pixels, 2pixels 0.
So that pushes that border down
to the lower right hand corner.
Now we'll do our next one.
.album greater than
:first-child::before, whew!
What a selector.
So this one will have
similar kind of values here.
And we're going to have it say bottom 0,
Right, 0.
I know what I did,
this one should be top right.
There we go, top right and
the other one is bottom right.
It probably doesn't really matter
what order you do these in except,
you know what?
Let's just leave it,
we'll make this one the top.
And this will be?
>> Top left to 2 0 0, right?
Did it work?
>> That's the same as the first one now.
>> That's the same as the first one.
It is, yep, okay?
Good i, bottom left,
that's what I need bottom Left.
Did it go?
Yeah, there it is.
And now we need 0 0 2 2, right?
There we go.
And then our last one,
.album > :first-child::after.
And this will be our, what are we missing?
>> Top left.
>> Top left, Top left,
and this will be 2 0 0 2.
Sweet, how cool is that?
Okay, so
what if we want those borders longer?
What could we do to make them longer or
shorter?
What would we do?
>> Change the size.
>> Change the size, right?
Do they have to be the same size?
Do they have to both be 40 pixels or
whatever, 20 pixels, 60 pixels?
No, we could make them different sizes,
right?
We could make one that's 4 pixels wide and
and 40 pixels high, right?
I don't know why you do that,
but you could, right?
Now here we've got little lines
over here on the side instead.
So you could change the color, right?
So you could have one
border that's one color and
one border that's the other color, right?
You could admit,
change the styles in all those corners.
You could round them.
There are so many things you could do.
Yeah, okay?
So this is just setting you up with a nice
little chunk of code here that you can
now take and
adapt to all kinds of other designs, yeah?
Super fun.
Yes.
>> I just wanna make sure I understand.
So you're using the first-child before and
after just to get two more boxes
>> Just to get two more boxes
>> You could do the second-child and
I'd work the same
>> You could potentially
do the second child and so forth.
But as Jason was saying, in order for
this to trick to work at all,
Well, the album box itself
has to have some content.
So there's always gonna be a first-child.
>> I see.
>> We don't know if there will ever be
a second child.
[LAUGH] So
that's why we set it up this way.
That's a great question,
I'm glad you asked that.